"7th Heaven" television series comes to an end
Tuesday, November 29, 2005
The long-running family drama television show, 7th Heaven, will conclude the series (in production since 1996) with the 200th episode. 7th Heaven has been the WB's time slot on Monday nights at 8:00 p.m. for the past ten years, since August 26, 1996.
David Janollari, President of Entertainment for The WB, and Brenda Hampton, Executive Producer, discuss their finishing touches to the final season. Brenda Hampton states, "We owe a compelling and unforgettable final season to the Camden family and to the millions of viewers who helped grow this program into a huge hit"; and states, "Although we had anticipated this could be the last season, it was difficult breaking the news to the cast and crew," Aaron Spelling, Executive Producer, also notes, "Not many shows make it to 10 years and it's even rarer for a series to go out on top after 10 seasons."
7th Heaven achieved the top 20 viewers of The WB of all times. At the "birth of the twins" in the episode, In Praise of Women, on February 8, 1999, the show got the highest viewer ratings of 12.5 million viewers, making it number one in the time slot against all viewers.
7th Heaven dealt with several social aspects of real life situation/issues ranging from "teen suicide and sibling rivalry to violence in schools". Episodes also touched on subject matters of the Iraq War and the death of "real-life American serviceman who was killed in Afghanistan". 7th Heaven also achieved over a dozen honors and awards from various organizations.
7th Heaven had many honored guest stars such as Wayne Newton, Richard Lewis, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, and Ashlee Simpson. Other guest stars appear from other shows on the network, such as: Felicity, Smallville, Gilmore Girls, and Charmed.
Stephen Collins as Reverend Camden sincerely states, "7th Heaven has been a gift", "Plus making a bit of TV history while watching our wonderful cast grow up in real time, has been the experience of a lifetime."
Sources
- "7TH HEAVEN" TO GO OUT ON TOP — WB, November 11, 2005
- Nellie Andreeva. Networks cancel '7th Heaven,' 'Arrested' — Reuters/Hollywood Reporter, November 11, 2005